1. Accept all of you. You are good and bad. Embrace it and just move the fuck on with your life and stop thinking about it.
2. Pay attention to the thoughts in your head. They are usually really negative and unmotivating. Every time you catch yourself having a negative thought stop that negative thought and have a positive one, same thing for  unmovating thoughts stop them and say something motivating. The truth is that you are: Attractive, wealthy, smart, hardworking and resilient. You know all these things are true from multiple lived experiences.
3. You are usually anxious. You also have a lot of anxious thoughts, thoughts that make you worry about things that you have no control over or things that you may have control over after a long period of time. DO NOT IGNORE ANXIETY OR ANXIOUS THOUGHTS. When you feel that tightness in your chest just remember: **what is there to be so worried about? Most liked you will NOT find an answer to that question, if you do that means you should be anxious and your brain is doing it's job well**. Anxious thoughts can be very easily destroyed as well, the danger is that you might feel like ignoring these thoughts because you are focused on something (DO NOT DO THAT). The moment you start having these thoughts bring them to the forefront of your consciousness and just ask the question: what can I do about this now? **The answer most likely will be nothing and you will realize how study your unconscious brain can be**, if it is something than just do that something.
4. You should already be brave and confident by now. You have so many things to be proud about already. You are so fucking hard working, you won the state basketball competition, you are attractive af, you learned a whole fucking physics book in 1 or 2 months, you do very difficult work out sessions consistently, learned how to play piano by yourself, you are now studying for an insane amount of hours every day consistently, and other things that I do not remember now. **How could you possibly think that you are not able to do something?** So far the only evidence that you have is that you can do anything if you just dedicate yourself to it.
5. I know as well that what you really want is GLORY. Am I wrong? Think about how glorious it is to finish a hard work out section. Think about how glorious it is to study all day long, to be in the 1% of people that actually study all fucking day, think about how glorious it is to learn C# and .NetFramework in 1 month, THINK ABOUT THE GLORY. YOU ARE RISING ABOVE THESE PATHETIC LOSERS AND THE SPEED IN WHICH YOU DO SO IS GROWING EXPONENTIALLY. THINK ABOUT THE FUCKING GLORY.