Days since I quit Youtube: 1

Hey. I know you are expecting some tipps and tricks on how to stop the YouTube addiction. I don't have any for you. What I do have to Tell you within the hard path. Believe me. I have tried a lot of tipps and tricks and they did not work for me.

The hard path is this: choose not to watch Youtube, even of it means that you will do NOTHING instead. Choose not to watch Youtube and stare at the walls if you do not have any other thing to do. At the beggining, it WILL be frustrating amd boring. Specially in the first days. After a while you will realize that you can do something better than starting at walls and than you will start to develop a new habit with that time you used to watch Youtube.

I am currently at this path and I am enjoying it.

Take care and have a nice habit change.


## Motivation

1. Emma Moffat:
	Thank you for stating my thoughts perfectly.. This is exactly what I did. I love them, but my friends claim they only watch it every now and then, but they talk like YouTubers, act like YouTubers, and are know-it-alls. During summer in my state that I won't state the name of for safety purposes, it is awful heat to where I cannot go outside and enjoy myself unless I am swimming. My solution? It was YouTube. But when I felt like swimming? I watched youtube because of that video that popped up in my recommended, until the next video started to load, and so on.. Then my cousins came to visit. One if them started out asking to watch it. The videos were inappropriate, but we made him change the channel and brushed it off, he wasn't addicted yet… Then he came again…. As he came, it got worse. He stayed up at night watching it, claiming he couldn't sleep because he was afraid of the dark. But the next day he'd be watching Five Nights at Freddy's, and suddenly we knew the cause. So we suggested he took a break, and he teared up. I would never imagine being so addicted to a simple app. He breathed the chemicals that his 200 dollar Nintendo switch released. The very switch that was meant for playing video games. His headphones made him scream the very few times he came up for air to ask a question. Even when they were off, and had been off for hours, his voice got progressively louder. One Thanksgiving Day he walked to the kitchen while me and my mother were cooking, and he was staring at the screen. We suggested he spent time with us, and he teared up. I couldn't believe it. He held the Switch, but the Switch held the power over him. I didn't get it. I was not addicted like him, I only watched it every now and then. I could never be so addicted…. Until I was. The app is designed like a black hole. With it's titles and fake thumbnails. I was not quite as bad as him, I would come up for air. But 3 months straight told me it was enough. I hated it. The boredom. But I went swimming, and took up a new, more productive hobby. Writing. And now I plan to be an author when I grow up. I can only pray for my cousin, but I will not watch YouTube. I cannot. My friends will bring it over, the ones who ✌️only watch it every now and then✌️, and I will find myself peering over their shoulders. I don't trust myself any longer, and no matter how bored I get, I am healthy. So here is my warning YOU MAY HOLD THE PHONE BUT THE PHONE HOLDS A POWER OVER YOU, IF YOU LET IT. IT IS DESIGNED LIKE A BLACK HOLE, YOU CAN RESIST, OR YOU CAN SWIM BACK TO THE STARS. When you start a video, proceed with caution, and you'll be lucky enough to live your life. You can watch, but be prepared for the black hole, resist if you may, but if you can't, swim back to the stars. Not only is it addicting, but it is influential. Please, heed my warning, and stop if necessary. As for my friends and cousin, pray for them, and resist the pull yourself.