You should REALLY check [Debugger Feature Finder](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/visualstudio/debugger/find-your-debugging-task?view=vs-2022)  if you want to do something with the debugger and do not know how.
# Debugging

Debugging == removing bugs.  Includes logging, code scanning, fixing typos, code analyzer, [performance profiler]() and other methods/tools.
Debugger == a specializide developer tool for debugging.
# Debugger Features

- Where To Set Debugger Configurations
	- On the Project's Properties - ALT + ENTER -> Debug or Solutions View -> click on project -> properties.
	- With the `[DebuggerDisplay()]` attribute
	- For General Debugger Settings Go to -> Tools -> Options -> Debugging.
- Exception Helper
	- The debugger will stop at a statement that throws an exception.
	- You can also view error details and add a watch from the Exception Helper. Or, if needed, you can change conditions for throwing the particular exception.
- Debug Mode
	- Change Building Mode (Debug or Performance) -> ALT+ B (Access Build Menu) + O (Build Menu Config Manager) + D(debug)/R(release).
		- Debug Mode - Attaches a debugger to your application. Used when your app is in development
		- Release Mode - No debugger + other changes for performance. Used when committing the final release of your app.
	- F5 -> Runs app with specified build. SHIFT + F5 == stop debugging. CTRL + SHIFT + F5 == restart.
		- Press Pause/Break key (P/B on your computer) to pause execution. F5 to pick it back from where it stopped.
			- Press CTRL + P/B to abruptly terminate the program.
- Debugger Commands
	- Easily Accessible Commands (no need to memorize)
		- Debug Window
			- Show Next Statement - ALT + Num * - Don't know what it does.
			- Step Into - F11
			- Step Over - F10
			- You can start a program by Stepping into or over.
			- Step Out - Shift + F11
	- Break Point Commands
		- Add Breakpoint: left click on extreme left to create a default breakpoint. Right click to create a more conditional, etc breakpoints.  You can also press F9.
			- Do any of the above commands again to delete the breakpoint.
		- Disable/Enable Breakpoint (Turn it off/on without deleting) - Hover or right-click on breakpoint and then click Disable/Enable
		- **Function Breakpoint** - set the debugger to run until it reaches a specified function. Debug -> New Breakpoint -> Function Breakpoint. **While debugging** - **Debug** > **Windows** > **Call Stack**, right-click a function and perform **Run To Cursor** (Ctrl + F10) or **Ctrl** + **K**, **B**. Or **Debug** > **New Breakpoint** > **Function Breakpoint** or **New** > **Function Breakpoint** in the **Breakpoints** window.
			- useful, for example, when you know the function name but not its location or if you have functions with the same name and you want to break on them all (such as overloaded functions or functions in different projects).
		- Break All -> break into the next available line of code in a running app, select **Debug** > **Break All**, or select **Ctrl**+**Alt**+**Break**.
		- Tracepoint - a breakpoint that prints a message to the **Output** window. Go to **Breakpoint Settings**
			-  A tracepoint can act like a temporary trace statement in the programming language and does not pause the execution of code.
		- **Breakpoint Condition**s - Go to **Breakpoint Settings** and define your conditions to activate the breakpoint.
			- **Conditional Expression**
				- Is true - regular boolean condition
				- When change - break when the value of the expression/variable has changed.
					- The first evaluation of the condition is not considered a change obviously.
			- **Object ID's (C# and F# only)** - you can create object IDs for specific instances of [reference types](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/language-reference/keywords/reference-types), and use them in breakpoint conditions. The object ID is generated by the common language runtime (CLR) debugging services and associated with the object.
				- For example, you might want to find out why an object was inserted into a collection more than once.
				- The breakpoint needs to be after the object is created. When you are debugging and the breakpoint is hit go to **Locals Window** and in the specific object instance in the **Locals** window, right-click it, and select **Make Object ID (looks like this $number)**.
				- 1. Add a new breakpoint at the point you want to investigate; for example, when the object is to be added to the collection. Right-click the breakpoint and select **Conditions**. Use the ID in the **Conditional Expression** field.
					- if the variable `item` is the object to be added to the collection, select **Is true** and type `**item == $<n>**`, where `<n>` is the object ID number. Execution will break at the point when that object is to be added to the collection.
				- right-click the variable in the **Locals** window and select **Delete Object ID** to delete the ID.
			- **Hit Count** - Activates Breakpoint after it has been hit a certain amount of times.
				- For when things start to go wrong after a certain amount of iterations.
			- **Filter Condition** - breakpoint fires only on specified devices, or in specified processes and threads.
				- Accepted Expression - Enclose string values in double quotes. You can combine clauses using `&` (AND), `||` (OR), `!` (NOT), and parentheses.
				- `MachineName` = "name"
				- `ProcessId` = value
				- `ProcessName` = "name"
				- `ThreadId` = value
				- `ThreadName` = "name"
		- Data Breakpoints - start debugging, and wait until a breakpoint is reached. In the **Autos**, **Watch**, or **Locals** window, right-click a property and select **Break when value changes** in the context menu.
			- I will not work for: 
				- Properties that are not expandable in the tooltip, Locals, Autos, or Watch window
				- Static variables
				- Classes with the DebuggerTypeProxy Attribute
				- Fields inside of structs
			- Data Breakpoint limit: x64/x86 Processor <= 4 breakpoints
	- Mouse Commands
		- Hovering over statement
			- Run to Click - Click the green start icon to advance the execution to the statement that you are hovering over.
		- Data Tips
			- While paused in the debugger, hover over an object with the mouse and you see its value, or its default property value.
		- Watch Commands
			- Setting a Watch/Quick Watch - right click on object/variable and click on Add Watch/Quick Watch.
				- Quick Watch - SHIFT + F9
		- Change Execution Flow
			- Click and drag the yellow arrow to the what statement you want to execute next.
			- Drag it literally anywhere you want.
		- Force run to Click
			- press the green arrow holding SHIFT.
			
	- Cursor(The | thingy when you are writing code) Commands
		- Run To Cursor - CTRL + F10 - Same thing as run to click but goes to the statement where the cursor is.
		- Force Run to Cursor - While debugging, right-click on Force Run to Cursor. Goes to the cursor statement ignoring breakpoints on the way.
	- Stack Frame Window
		- The top line shows the current function. The second line shows the function or property it was called from, and so on.
		-  double-click a line of code to go look at that source code and that also changes the current scope being inspected by the debugger. This does not advance the debugger.
	- Auto Window 
		- you see variables along with their current value and their type
		-  shows all variables used on the current line and the near variables in the preceding and proceeding three lines of code.
	- Local Window
		- shows you the variables that are form the current method's in scope.
	- Watch Window
		- Deleting a Watch - Right Click on watched object and then left click on delete watch.
- How to Debug The Right Way
	- Compile Time Debugging 
		- Use the Error List Window to keep track of the compile time errors
		- Red squiggles - Errors/Warnings identified by the VS code analyzer that you need to fix.
		- Green squiggles or yellow separate dots - May or may not be problems
		- Light Bulb Icon - quick actions to fix or refactor the code for errors that need to be fixed
			- Click on Preview Changes to see the consequences of the alteration before you commit.
		- Screw Driver Icon - quick actions to fix or refactor the code for errors that may or may not be errors/fixed.
		- Screw Driver and Light Bulb will only appear if the code analyzer can guess your intent, otherwise they will not appear.
	- Run Time Debugging
		- Start Debugging (CTRL + F5)
		- Because you started the app in debug mode (debugger attached), the debugger's Exception Helper takes you right to the code that threw the exception and gives you a helpful error message.
		- Then Ask Yourself
			- Is this exception just a bug that you can fix?/Am I in control of that data? If yes fix it.
			- Is this exception something that your users might encounter? Catch the exception with a try catch block.
				- try catch blocks == bad performance. Should be only used where (a) they might occur in the release version of the app, and where (b) the documentation for the method indicates that you should check for the exception. 
				- Do not used empty catch blocks ever
				- Use the `try/catch` block around the specific function that throws the exception. Never use try catch on a large chunk of code.
				- for a general exception, that is, an exception that is not tied to the specific library function, you normally want to avoid using a `try/catch` block and just fix the exception with good code.
				- For unfamiliar functions that you include in your app, especially functions that interact with external data (such as a web request), check the documentation to see what exceptions the function is likely to throw. This can be critical information for proper error handling and for debugging your app.
		- Use `assert` statements
			- They allow you to assert your code's intent (what you want your code to do)
			- `assert` code is active only in a Debug build. They don't excute in a Release build.
			- Debug.Assert(TrueorFalseCondition)
			- it's best to add `assert` statements at the entry point (beginning) of a function or method.
		- After all of that you can finally use the rest of your debugger tools. These more powerful capabilities are useful in many scenarios, especially the following scenarios:
			- You're trying to isolate a runtime bug in your code, but are unable to do it using methods and tools previously discussed.
			- You want to validate your code, that is, watch it while it runs to make sure it's behaving in the way you expect and doing what you want it to.


# Code Navigation

DRY! If it's not important do not write it

## Navigation

## BreakPoints

## Move the Execution Pointer

## Troubleshooting Breakpoints



