Stoped at page -> 55
## Introduction of Translator

- He who thinks new favours will cause great personages to forget old injuries deceives himself. People will not rest until they get revenge.
- Machiavelli moralizes on the resemblance between Fortune and women, and concludes that it is the bold rather than the cautious man that will win and hold them both.
- Machiavelli has painted Ferdinand of Aragon as the man who accomplished great things under the cloak of religion, but who in reality had no mercy, faith, humanity, or integrity; and who, had he allowed himself to be influenced by such motives, would have been ruined
- As Dante says: Knowledge doth come of learning well retained, Unfruitful else.
- Machiavelli in a letter: I have neither slept nor idled; and men ought ever to desire to be served by one who has reaped experience at the expense of others. And of my loyalty none could doubt, because having always kept faith I could not now learn how to break it; for he who has been faithful and honest, as I have, cannot change his nature; and my poverty is a witness to my honesty.’
- Cardinal de Messy gave Niccolo Machiavelli a job in 1525 to right "History of Florence" because, according to him: ‘an able statesman out of work, like a huge whale, will endeavour to overturn the ship unless he has an empty cask to play with.’
	- One more time you see Napoleon was correct in saying: "Men are ruled by Toys". If anybody poses a threat to you, consider giving them a toy to play with and they will leave you alone. A toy can be anything: a job, an enemy, an ideology... literally anything that somebody may want to play with.
- Men are still the dupes (victims of deception) of their simplicity and greed, as they will be forever. Men are simple and greedy. (do not hold back on women either)
-  Men will not look at things as they really are, but as they wish them to be—and are ruined.
	- Me: Here Machiavelli expresses the same idea as the author of How To Win Friends And Influence People: "People have 2 motives to do something, the real motive and the ideal motive. Always appeal to the ideal motive."
- Machiavelli: In life there are no perfectly safe courses; prudence consists in choosing the least dangerous ones.
	- Me: Always try your best to reach perfection, but never settle for perfection only since perfection will almost never be reachable. In other words, strive for the **most perfect solution there is**.

## The Prince Introduction

- Lets break what Machiavelli is doing here: To the Magnificent Lorenzo Di Piero De’ Medici: Those who strive to obtain the good graces of a prince are accustomed to come before him with such things as they hold most precious, or in which they see him take most delight; whence one often sees horses, arms, cloth of gold, precious stones, and similar ornaments presented to princes, worthy of their greatness. Desiring therefore to present myself to your Magnificence with some testimony of my devotion towards you, I have not found among my possessions anything which I hold more dear than, or value so much as, the knowledge of the actions of great men, acquired by long experience in contemporary affairs, and a continual study of antiquity; which, having reflected upon it with great and prolonged diligence, I now send, digested into a little volume, to your Magnificence. And although I may consider this work unworthy of your countenance, nevertheless I trust much to your benignity that it may be acceptable, seeing that it is not possible for me to make a better gift than to offer you the opportunity of understanding in the shortest time all that I have learnt in so many years, and with so many troubles and dangers; which work I have not embellished with swelling or magnificent words, nor stuffed with rounded periods, nor with any extrinsic allurements or adornments whatever, with which so many are accustomed to embellish their works. Take then, your Magnificence, this little gift in the spirit in which I send it; wherein, if it be diligently read and considered by you, you will learn my extreme desire that you should attain that greatness which fortune and your other attributes promise. And if your Magnificence from the summit of your greatness will sometimes turn your eyes to these lower regions, you will see how unmeritedly I suffer a great and continued malignity of fortune.
	-  "worthy of their greatness" -> feeding Lorenzo's pride with praise and giving him a feeling that he is important.
	- "my devotion towards you" -> putting yourself down putting the other person above you.
	- "I have not found among my possessions anything which I hold more dear" + the described qualities of the book -> raises the apparent value of the book
	- "And although I may consider this work unworthy of your countenance, nevertheless I trust much to your benignity that it may be acceptable " -> humbling himself and putting Lorenzo above him simultaneously and then fabricating a reputation (benign) for him to uphold. "You are so much better than me and so benign! I just know you will accept and read my book!"
	- "if it be diligently read and considered by you, you will learn my extreme desire that you should attain that greatness which fortune and your other attributes promise" -> 
	- If I was in Lorenzo's place I would take this as flattery and not praise. This would not fool me at all, it would be clear that the real objective of Niccolo is to make me read the book. But this was said to Lorenzo Medici, somebody that is probably unbelivably egotistical and thinks super highly of himself and very little of others, so this has a real chance on working on him.

## CHAPTER I. HOW MANY KINDS OF PRINCIPALITIES THERE ARE, AND BY WHAT MEANS THEY ARE ACQUIRED

- All powers that ever ruled men already exist or are new (pretty obvious). Theses powers are acquired either by the arms(resources/army/money/etc) of the person in power himself, or of others, or else by fortune or by ability.

## CHAPTER II. CONCERNING HEREDITARY PRINCIPALITIES

- Machiavelli: "I will discuss how such principalities(territory/nation governed by a prince/one person that holds all the power) are to be ruled and preserved."
- If you are going to inherit the power over a territory/group of people all you need to do is respect and adhere to the customs of your predecessors and deal with the problematic events prudently as they arise. The only threat is some  extraordinary and excessive force that will take you take you out of your position of power, but even if that happens the moment the usurper is the target of misfortune you will regain your position of power.
- Machiavelli: For **the hereditary prince(you/the one that inherited the power) has less cause and less necessity to offend; hence it happens that he will be more loved; and unless extraordinary vices cause him to be hated, it is reasonable to expect that his subjects will be naturally well disposed towards him**; and **in the antiquity and duration of his rule the memories and motives that make for change are lost, for one change always leaves the toothing(desire) for another.**

## CHAPTER III. CONCERNING MIXED PRINCIPALITIES

- If you did not inherit but created your power over a group of people/territory it will be harder because " men have a natural tendency to change who rules them in other to better themselves.". The ruler will have to burden the ones that submitted to him with a bunch of hardships to defend against the threat. You (the ruler) will have enemies in all those whom you have injured while acquiring your power and you will be unable to keep your friends since you will be unable to satisfy them in the way they expected.
	- It is very common for people to be deceived and put an even worse ruler in place.
	- It will also be hard to take measures against your friends if you feel like they play a key role in have power over the group of people/territory.
		- "Although one may be very strong in armed forces, yet in entering a province one has always need of the goodwill of the natives."
- There is a blessing in disguise if you so happen to lose your power and reacquire it: the opportunity of the rebellion to punish the delinquents, to clear out the suspects, and to strengthen himself in the weakest places.
	- "to cause France to lose Milan the first time it was enough for the Duke Lodovico[*] to raise insurrections on the borders; but **to cause him to lose it a second time it was necessary to bring the whole world against him**, and that his armies should be defeated and driven out of Italy;"
- If you acquire power over a group of people/territory that share the same culture as the people already in your control it is easier to control them, specially when they are not used to self-government; and to hold them securely it is enough to have destroyed the family(him and every key friend/family that he had involved in his ruling) of their previous ruler. People that have the same culture will live in harmony.
	- "As long as customs are alike, and the people will easily be able to get on amongst themselves."
	- Do not change the laws of the previous ruler in order to make the new group of people/territory become one with the group of people/territory that is already in your control.
- But when states/people/territory acquired have different language, customs, or laws, there are difficulties, and good fortune and great energy are needed to hold them,  he who has acquired them should go and reside there. Because, if one is on the spot, disorders are seen as they spring up, and one can quickly remedy them; but if one is not at hand, they are heard of only when they are great, and then one can no longer remedy them. Besides this, the country is not pillaged by your officials; the subjects are satisfied by prompt recourse to the prince; thus, wishing to be good subordinates, they have more cause to love him, and wishing to be otherwise, to fear him. He who would attack that state/people/territory from the outside must have the utmost caution; as long as the one in power/prince resides there it can only be wrested from him with the greatest difficulty.
- "men ought either to be well treated or crushed, because they can avenge themselves of lighter injuries, of more serious ones they cannot; therefore the injury that is to be done to a man ought to be of such a kind that one does not stand in fear of revenge."

This book is already pretty condensed so I am going ot stop trying to summarize it on page 25. Machiavelli barely wastes words, everything he says is usually important. 
Just make sure to think of the things he says in a way that applies to your life, that's the whole point of reading theses books to begin with.
For instance, chances are you are not going to be a prince or rule ver any territory anytime soon. So translate Machiavelli's knowledge to something tangible like: the territory is your classroom, the nation are the students of your classroom and the prince is the one in control of the class... hopefully you.

