"The two main sins from which all the others derive: indolence and impatience."


- Energy: This world reward doing way more than thinking, thinking should be reserved to key parts of the day. The amount of things that you can do in a day depend on the amount of energy that acquired through eating, physical tiredness is way more bearable than mental tiredness. Situations where it might be worth to use your brain: to manipulate people in a social setting, when learning something new that you really want to understand, when reviewing the day to notice what you did wrong. Even when practicing programming you should avoid falling in the trap of thinking about stuff you have already learned. I should be doing things 80% of the time and thinking like 20% of the time through the day.
- Daily Review: when you go to sleep think about: 1. the people you've met and your interactions with them,  2. how much acting vs how much thinking and what where your actions, thoughts and emotions. Questions: 1. When did I meet them? What did I/they say to them/me? What are their prejudices, pride and vanities? What did I/they want from that conversation? What were your/their feelings in the conversation and what made them arise? How could I make them do what I wanted them to do? 2. Throughout the day, when did I thought/acted but should be acting/thinking instead? When did I waste energy? What made me waste energy? What were good/bad actions/thoughts I had in the day? Could my thoughts/actions be better today, if yes them how? What emotions did I feel today? When did I feel these emotions? How did these emotions affected my performance regarding thinking vs acting, study/work output and social standing? What were good/bad emotions I had and why are they good/bad? What can I do to make myself feel better emotions tomorrow?